When starting a new UX project, you need to
understand your goals before designing anything.
Two of them.
And nothing is more important to your success
as a UX designer.
The first are the user's goals.
Like getting into college, learning to bake
cookies, or becoming a licensed driver.
User goals are descriptions of end states
that users want to achieve.
Real end states, and not limited to the scope
of the product that you’re working on.
Because that product will be most useful when
it is designed with an understanding of the
larger context of the user.
A website that makes all content discoverable
and makes all its interactions intuitive may
be usable.
But it will never be useful unless it is relevant
to a real purpose a user has.
So how do you find the user's goals?
Asking project stakeholders is not an optimal
way to find user goals.
Even those who communicate directly with users
often have different goals.
It is better to look for other,
objective sources.
Like doing user research.
I will tell you more about this in
Chapter 3.
Second, there are the business goals.
The most fundamental input into the
UX design process is understanding
the underlying business objectives.
Because every organization has a reason to
create a site or app in the first place.
So what are you trying to achieve?
Examples of business goals for a travel website
might include selling more hotel stays,
lower customer service costs,
or more repeat customers.
A clear definition of the company's objectives
is an essential step.
After you define these goals, you also need
to determine how you will measure success.
What does success look like?
This is usually accomplished by increasing
critical business metrics such as
conversion rates, sales, retention, and so on.
It's also critical to define these key success
metrics at the outset of the project.
Because they affect all the other design decisions
you make during the process.
These metrics also ensure that the final experience
aligns with your original goals.
Going back to the examples of travel website
business goals, you can make them more specific
and measurable by adding success metrics.
For instance:
Instead of ‘sell more hotel stays’,
a better goal would be:
Increase net conversion of hotel stays in Italy by 10% in Q1
Reduce customer service calls by 20% per year,
instead of ‘lower customer service cost’.
More returning customers could be:
Increase the number of repeat
customers by 10 customers per week
This makes the business goals specific
and measurable.
The real test of a UX designer is how well
you can align those goals so that the company
benefits when the user achieves their goal.
It's all about finding the right balance.
Where do user goals meet business goals?
Take YouTube as an example.
They make money from ads
and users want to find good videos.
So, it makes sense to place ads in
or before the videos.
But more than that, by making it easy to search
for videos and find similar videos
users will watch more.
Making YouTube more money.
User experience and business goals
often go hand in hand.
If we go back to the earlier example of the
travel website.
A clear page about the hotel and its prices
would most likely save time and improve the
experience for the user.
As well as increasing the conversion rate.
Everyone wins.
Sometimes they don't.
For example, if you make it too easy for a
customer to cancel a booked overnight stay for free.
When, on closer inspection,
they find it too expensive.
The user feels positive relief.
But this also increases the cancellation rate
and the company loses money.
A good UX designer is needed to find the best
balance between these two goals.
For example, by making it easy enough to
cancel the overnight stay.
While still striving to maximize the number
of users who want to book an alternative hotel.
For example, by offering alternative options
that better fit the user's budget.
The user is happy.
The company is happy.
Meaningful experiences transform a digital
creation into a great outcome for users and
businesses alike.
Users engage
and businesses grow.
You'll spend less time and money getting these
results because effective UX design and research
will show you what to do and what not to do.
Ot the other hand, if you try to avoid UX, you will
find yourself pursuing unattainable goals
and failure will soon follow.
The business goals and user needs as we just
discussed are the most important to start with.
But the building blocks of the UX design process
focus on a few more things.
Strategic input also includes the competitive
landscape, technical architecture,
design and content input.
You should consider all these areas
when building a user experience
as each affects the overall experience.
Before starting the design process, it is
important to consider the competitive landscape.
Assessing your competition means assessing
what others in the same industry are doing.
Especially around all types of
user interaction they create.
For instance:
Who else has a similar product or service
on the market?
What can you learn from assessing
the UX of that service?
What features or content might be missing?
Any ideas you can get for building
a best-in-class user experience?
It is particularly helpful to take an in-depth
look at similar experiences of products that
exist on the market.
You can learn a lot by reviewing these services
and avoiding many of the pitfalls of UX design.
The second element to include is
the technological architecture.
Studying this ensures that the underlying
technology supports the design choices you make.
Some of the fundamental questions to answer
include:
Which technology supports your solution?
What is technically feasible?
Are there any restrictions
you should be aware of?
Where will this user experience exist?
Is that a website on a mobile or desktop?
Or a screen in a store?
The interface of a thermostat?
Or the navigation screen in your car?
Which web browsers are supported
in the case of a website?
Or in the case of an app, which operating
systems are supported such as Apple or Android?
What technology is needed to create, produce,
publish and maintain your user experience?
What about a content management system?
Does a user need to register or authenticate
for the website or app?
As you can see these topics can get very technical.
All team members of a UX project should have
a common understanding of the technologies
that enable the experience.
Intensive collaboration and coordination with
your colleagues from the engineering department
is crucial.
Another fundamental building block of UX is
understanding your users.
Who are they, how will they use your solution
and what do you know about them?
To design successful user-centric solutions,
two tools provide useful insights.
Personas help determine what user behavior
should be taken into account in your ultimate experience.
While scenarios or journeys provide
the different paths a user can take
to complete a task within the experience.
Let's look at personas first.
Often the problem is not the lack of
information about your users.
The challenge is to prioritize the information
you know about users.
Not all users are equally important.
In the example of our hotel website, people
who camp or couch surf are of less or no importance
compared to a couple going on a city trip
or a business traveler.
You should document which type of user has
your highest priority.
User information is usually distilled into
simple and digestible formats.
Called user profiles or personas.
As you can see in this example.
Personas help bring the target user to life,
showcase business-critical information about
that user, and remove unnecessary details.
You use these personas
throughout the project lifecycle.
In Chapter 2, we'll cover the design process.
To bring a future solution to life, a persona
is usually linked to a scenario or user journey.
Scenarios tell a simple story of the process
a target user goes through and how your new
solution is used along the way.
For the hotel website example, your scenario
might explain the process a couple goes through
when they want to book a hotel room in a city.
The user journey tells a story in the same
way, but is usually a higher-level story,
with more reach and impact.
For example, a scenario can illustrate how
the couple is researching a hotel with a swimming
pool in the city in question.
While the user journey shows the broader process
of initiating and experiencing the holiday trip.
Brand guidelines are also an important factor.
You want to understand all your organization's
branding requirements.
As they can impact the final user experience.
Most companies work with brand guidelines
and design systems that describe color palettes,
spacing, fonts, and so on.
Here are examples from some major companies.
I've posted links to these design systems
below this video.
It is very instructive to browse through these
design systems and see how they are built.
Another important input is the content.
Essential to successful user experiences,
as it informs what types of information are
made available to your users.
I'll briefly discuss two tools that can help
you with this.
In Chapter 3, we go deeper into topics such
as content strategy and information architecture.
The first is how you organize and label information.
Also called taxonomy.
This ensures your users can find what they
need.
For example, consider a library where books
are organized by author, title, or subject.
This makes it easier to find a book.
If you've bought a product online, you've
probably come across a taxonomy without even
realizing it.
For example, take a look at the classification
of products on Amazon or videos on Netflix.
Without a good and robust taxonomy, your users
may not be able to find what they need
so that's essential.
So how do you get all these inputs and requirements?
The more you understand what you can't do
and what you must do
the better your final designs will be.
As a UX designer, your ideas often stem from
the constraints you define by studying the problem.
Collect problems that can be solved, things
that cannot be changed, and technical things
that must be included.
Your design affects other parts of the business.
For example, the sales team
has products to sell.
The engineers may have legacy code that is
difficult to change.
Executives have long-term goals to be achieved.
So, always enter into a dialogue with each
of the stakeholders involved in the design.
By talking to stakeholders, you avoid making
mistakes that can cost you time and money.
I hope that after this lesson you will have
a better idea of all the input you need.
Let's summarize what we learned in this lesson.
You need to understand your goals
before designing anything.
The first are the user goals.
Descriptions of end states that
users want to achieve.
Second, there are the business goals.
What are you trying to achieve?
You also need to determine
how you will measure success.
What does success look like?
What business metrics
are important to look at?
The next thing is how well
you can align these goals.
So that the company benefits when the user
achieves their goal.
But there are more things to look at.
Strategic input also includes the competitive
landscape, technical architecture,
design and content input.
You should consider all these areas when building
a user experience, as each affects the experience.
Join me in the next lesson where
I tell you more about the value of UX.